       The pressure is ramped from 600 mbar to 200 mbar and the voltage along the pressure
       ramp is recorded. Using voltage, pressure, conductivity, and viscosity of the solution, a zeta
       potential is calculated. This sequence is repeated three times at pH values ranging from 2
1265   to 11.


       Surface Charge Density and Partition Coeﬃcient Analysis

       Figure S9 depicts the zeta potential measurements for an NF270 membrane. Diafiltration
       experiments were conducted at the unadjusted pH of the KCl solutions (∼pH 6). Taking
       the zeta potential measurement at pH 6, the Gouy-Chapman equation 86 can be used to
1270   calculate the surface charge density. Assuming the charge is uniformly distributed within
       the void volume of the pores, an eﬀective volumetric charge density (χ) of 140 mM was
       calculated for the NF270 membranes.
          Ion partitioning into nanofiltration membranes is impacted by a number of energetic
       considerations. Here, for the NF270 membranes, it is assumed that steric hindrance and
1275   electrostatic interactions are the dominant factors determining partitioning. Therefore, as-
       suming equilibrium at the membrane-solution interface, and equating the electrochemical
       potential for each ion i inside and outside of the membrane:


                                 RT ln(cm                             s
                                        i ) + zi F ∆φD + ∆µi = RT ln(ci )                      (S23)


       where cm is the solution-membrane interface concentration in the membrane phase, cs is the
       interface concentration in the solution phase, z is the valency of the ion, F is the Faraday
1280   constant, ∆φD is the electrostatic potential diﬀerence and ∆µ is the chemical potential
       diﬀerence of the ion. This can be rearranged as

                                         cm
                                          i            −zi F ∆µi
                                           s
                                             = Hi exp(           )                             (S24)
                                         ci              RT

       where Hi is the individual ion partition coeﬃcient determined by the extent of steric hin-

                                                   SI-8
